It's real hard to just strike out and say, we're
going to do this. And it's hard to explain, I think,
to the average citizen how engineering research
affects their lives. until you can give them some
concrete examples. And so what we try to do is put it
in language and explain it, especially to the
legislature, what it is we do and how it has an
impact on the future.
Isn't Invent kind of targeted to the individuals?
Exactly. Doesn't matter where, you know,
anybody, anywhere, you have an idea and you send it
in and it will be reviewed. And the success ratio in
selection is very small because most things have
been thought of before or have been done better
already. But it gives you an opportunity to find
out for no charge. if there's a potential for
something that will... We're primarily targeted
at things that will create more jobs in the state,
either enhance the productivity or the product
line of businesses already in existence and or
create new businesses that will hire people. What
is the... How does the Research Foundation and
TEAS
work together? The Research Foundation is an
entity that
panels all of our federal contracts right now. To
give you an example of how they function, we could
buy a boat or a vessel for environmental
engineering to use to do their research with, but
we can't purchase the insurance. State entities
can't buy insurance. They just, well, if you try to
insure all these buildings, you'd be able to build
one building a year from their previous. And so
it's a good fiscal policy, except under certain
circumstances. And so there is a need to have a
vehicle that can do those kinds of things for you.
So they serve special purpose needs. And in the
past, they have also done an awful lot of the
proposal preparation and the budget advisement
and contract negotiations. As far as I know, they
were very distinct operations when I came to work
and
have probably grown more distinct as opposed to a
lot of the services we are able to do
sometimes easier or quicker or better. Or what we
find, we have to justify to the researcher that
we're purchasing a service through the research
foundation. And we've got to make sure that the
researcher gets his money's worth. That we're
being cost effective.
During your short stint here, what has been the
biggest period of change in teens? Oh, I think the
fact that Skip was director has changed the whole
perspective of the agency. In that it was
much more aggressively attuned to serving the
state and meeting the nation's problems. We found
that so many people... T's had been a passive
organization. Responsive, but passive, I think,
in the past. And we found that many people who
didn't know that it existed and that it could
provide statewide service might have been on the
way to creating another entity that was a state
agency to do exactly what we were chartered to do
initially. And so with that
threat or possibility in mind, we realized that we
really did exist and we did have a state charter. We
were not just here to serve. Texas A&M University,
and we were a college station. We were here to serve
the state of Texas, and we could do that here. This
is a good place to do it. We're structured well to do
that. We just needed to be more open with the state
and public officials in saying that we recognize
our state charter and we're interested in helping
our state partners. Do you think there's been a
national emphasis before? has always been in
securing contracts. We've always worked on a
national basis as far as liaison with meeting Air
Force and DOD and those kinds of contacts. But I
think that Texas is in the limelight now. We are
what's going to happen to the nation in many
respects. The problems that you address here are
also the problems of the nation. And so it's just
become very focused.
And so by doing more, most often we do it. Were there
any particular critical turning points besides
the reporters? Was there a time that you felt TEAS
was threatened because of these new
organizations? Well, I don't know if there was any
particular piece of legislation that was
written. It didn't get quite as far as
legislation. But the governor's commission,
Governor Clement set up the Texas 2000. And early
on, I'd have to stop to get documents for you, but
we'll do that later. Porter went over to
participate in the Engineering Extension
Service staff development conference and one of
the speakers was Vic Arnold and he was quoted from
part of the research that he had done as director of
the Texas 2000. It stated that there is no state
agency to do R&D in the state of Texas. And we're
sitting over here doing, we still had TTI in with us
at that time. And we were doing about $24 million
worth of research per year. And so we thought,
maybe we might need to go talk to this person and let
him know that we exist. And so we did that. And
actually, as one of the recommendations
initially, they were going to recommend that
their biggest agency created to do research and
development technology. We were invited to make a
presentation to a subcommittee on research and
development for the Texas 2000. This was Paul
Thayer, while he was still president of LTV before
he became president of the National Chamber of
Commerce. He went to some government position,
too. A.B. Holliday, she's the largest realtor in
the world. There's like 27 offices in the Dallas
area. Just a wide variety
of people. I think Dean Rostow from the LBJ School
in UT Austin. Harvey McManus from the Institute of
Constructive Capitalism. a wide variety of
people on this panel. And we went and told them what
the Engineering Experiment Station did, and
described to them the concept of INFENT, which was
just then coming up as a way to address the needs of
the job low on the street in dealing with the ideas,
how to spur entrepreneurism, and how to get every
person to see that there is a need for R&D in their
activities and that they can have a good idea and
somebody can help them with that. The final
recommendation and the target that you guys were
looking for was that there be the Institute for
Ventures in New Technology, which changed names
about six times in that process. We had to call them
all the time and tell them what we were calling them
that week. It serves as a prototype. for similar
types of efforts. And there wasn't a
recommendation to create a new state agency to do
R&D. That's probably the closest that I... Was
there recognition by them that A&M existed for
R&D? Oh, well, with the invent statement, yeah.
That was a major coup, I think, because these
were... people in Austin that had worked for UT
before and went to work on this project and went
back to work for UT as Director of Bureau of
Business Research afterwards. So it opened their
eyes a lot.
Is that the most successful period? Well, I think
we're getting in vent past. I really don't think
that people internally had as much confidence as
people externally had that legislation would
pass in a very hectic session and that funding
would be secure.
We got a million dollars in a very, very tight
fiscal biennium. And the Legislative Budget
Board didn't recommend any money for it. because
they felt like the legislature needed to say this
was something so new and so different that they had
to have the whole House and Senate vote on to
demonstrate that this was the expenditure of
money for the public good. Because it created a
precedent that had not existed before. There is
state law that says you cannot spend money, you
can't give money to a private individual. You
couldn't invest in private, for private money. We
had to invest for the public good. And we had to then
do, our legislation, what it really says is that we
agree that the Institute for Business and
Technology exists for the public good of the
state. And even though it helps individual
people, that's going to benefit this whole state
in the long run. By creating more jobs? Exactly.
And So that bill did not pass
until May 26th. The session was over very shortly
thereafter. And at the last minute was added, the
money was added as a rider in the appropriations
bill. That's 1920. Yeah. To pay, to give us money to
operate that on. That was a major turning point, I
think. I'm trying to think if there have been
others, because it seems like there have been.
Here, it's just one turning point after another. I
think that another turning point is our working
relationships and our cooperative agreements
move to be distributed industrial research
centers, if that's what we're going to call it. So
that that will be a milestone with you tomorrow. Is
there a project that you think T should have
pursued that they didn't? Oh, there's a lot of
those.
We're still working to
find ways to work with Mexico and Canada to
establish international ties and linkages. And
that just doesn't happen overnight. It's going to
take a long time. When did that process begin? Oh,
again, I think that was a mindset that we all felt
comfortable with when we came in. It hadn't
started before that time? Well, there had been, I
think Vincent will tell you, there had been ever
before that. It was just something that, We're
just now beginning to see the real importance of
recognizing we're in a global economy, and
participating on an international basis. The
effort you're making right now is within the
continent, right? Yes. You
had made a comment about the role of TEAS in
education. Can you expand any more on what you
think that role is and how it has changed? Well,
we're evolving another, I don't know if it will
ever become Envision, but it's a laboratory
center called the Learning Technology Center.
And this is a way to link engineers and educators.
to work on the question of how people learn. And I
think technology is a tool that I don't know that
current
theory on learning is transferable to
technological tools. I think you may learn very
differently. using a terminal, using a video
disk, using, you may not have to be in a particular
building, you may not have to be in a particular
place. Those flexibilities can change the
educational environment and can change the whole
educational process. Many people in public
schools are adamantly opposed because they
aren't convinced that we'll do anything
different. And much of what's been produced so far
is not very good. We're just on the verge of having
anybody put together anything that doesn't want
to just entertain you. It's as close to basic
research as I have found. What about the role of the
research and the aerodynamic research used in
teaching aerodynamics here? Is there much
interplay between those?
Let me see if I understand your question. Are you
interested in how technology impacts teaching,
aerodynamics? How research is going on at TEAS? Is
it used in classroom instruction? You will find
that 80% of our employees are faculty in Texas A&E.
They're joint employees. We just buy out their
time. And so The things they learn in the
laboratory are immediately transferable to
their classroom. And in fact, in a lot of cases,
much of the work done in the laboratory is done by
the graduate students. And so it's a learning.
What I hope evolves with our research part, and
what I think is going to happen to education at the
graduate level eventually, especially in the
technical areas, is like we have teaching
hospitals or medicine and veterinary medicine
right now. We have teaching companies that come
and locate in research parks where not only do you
have the laboratories where you're really doing
the work and doing whatever it is the company does,
but those become a learning mechanism. The
buildings may have classrooms built right into
them. And the people who are in industry also
become instructors, teachers, or facilitators
in that process. Which is, it's a way down the road,
I think, but it's kind of awesome. The research
park that you're talking about, how is that, what
is the status of that at this point? As far as I know,
they have selected the A&E for an architecture and
engineering firm that's going to do the
construction of the streets, sewers. They've got
to get all the utilities set up. You wouldn't But
they do have funding to construct it? Yeah,
they're going to do that. I think they
appropriated probably about $7 million. Is it
state funding? Well, it's available fund money.
What they're going to do is, you know, you wouldn't
go buy a lot in a subdivision if it didn't have a
road, it didn't have a sewer, it didn't have water
and utilities, and you didn't know how much it
cost. They're in the process of getting it. But
they have committed themselves, TEAS has
committed themselves to doing this? Well, now
it's the university that's actually the person.
It's not going to be a TEAS project? No, we're
connected to it in that we're supportive of it, but
it's actually, there's a vice chancellor for the
research park and corporate relations named Mark
Mooney, and he reports to the chancellor. So it's
really a system project. Which TEAS will only be
part of. Yeah. How
have external events affected your research
funding, state or national? The economy? Oh, I
think that we're... I think external events
affect us in that there are things that need to be
done in research areas that sometimes are easier
to the quote-unquote sell based upon what
happens. in the outside world. People become much
more receptive to education technology since
Nation at Risk came out, since the national
reports have come out, since we've had the
governor's report on education. That is a topic
that will be, hopefully, the legislature will be
receptive to when you go back next time. But
they're receptive to their problems, and what we
try to do is anticipate what the problems are, and
already have research teams in place or the
beginnings of that put together so that we can
respond.
Our best bet is if we can anticipate the problem
before they do, before they begin to feel, so that
we can respond by saying, yes, we're working in
that area. Here's what we can do for you. So what we
do, we work in the future. We work on things that
haven't been done before. That's ours. to figure
out what it is next. So you've done that with
education in terms of restarting. Are there any
other things that you know of since you've been
here? Oh, sure. The space technology effort and
space exploitation and commercialization. Dave
Norton can tell you much more about that. But what
we did, we do programming fees once a year. We sit
down with every division head. and talk about what
they have done, what they want to do, what their
major problems are, where they see research
going. And a recurring theme year before last was
that there's going to be a renewed emphasis in
space. But with a different, not just in getting
there and getting back, but what do you do once
you're there. And so we began to toy that area and
began to put together some effort and some
research activities there, some planning. And
it's been since then that the president has come
out and said, we're going to have a station. And
that there has been private companies spring up
that are trying to launch their own rockets and go
into business because they think there's going to
be a profit. That NASA's thinking about turning
the shuttle over to some private contractor for
commercial operation. So that they anticipate
it. All we have to do a lot of times is listen. You
just have to keep your ear to the ground to figure
out what it is that's going to be on the floor. Who do
you listen to? researchers and,
well, yes and no, people. You can read, you know,
you can follow a chain of events and just kind of
begin to see if you think far enough You think that
in itself is a skill to... Oh yeah. I read something
recently that described it really well and this
psychologist or sociologist said that there are
one-year people and there are ten-year people and
five-year people. He said some people, if you're a
one-year person, you can only think in one-year
time frame and you think everybody else thinks
that way too. I have always...
well, for a long time. I don't guess I was aware of
it, but I for a long time have known that I think of
ideas and can go ahead and get them in place, but
they may not be really implemented and used for
three, four, five, ten years. Come up with
products for others. Yeah, it just happens that,
you know,
the The use and application and receptivity to
some of that stuff just takes longer for other
people to become comfortable with. But you've got
to have all of those kinds of people. You can't have
all people that just think in tenured terms. I
mean, think way out there. Or you wouldn't get
today's problem solved. But in terms of planning
programs. Yeah.
This is a biggie. What is your general assessment
of the value of TEAS to A&M, to the state, to the
nation, to the world? You want to start there and
then I'll ask the rest of them? TEAS is a benefit to
Texas A&M University that Texas A&M University
does not really realize, I think. and that it is a
place that has the flexibility to respond to
long-term ideas and to short-range needs. If a
researcher comes in today and says, boy, if I could
just do this, this, and this, then we'd have this
research project, and this would really help
where we're going. It would help Texas A&M. We
don't see ourselves as separate and apart. The
people who work for us are both. I think that's hard
for administrators that are in charge of
academics to realize sometimes, is we're not
trying to fight over who this person belongs to.
We're just trying to support good programs. In
fact, a lot of the programs that TEAS has developed
traditionally have then become university
property, so to speak, the cyclotron, the data
processing center. There are things like that
that initially were started by TEAS, either
because TEAS had
fiscal capability and flexibility, because it
has a flexibility with its financial status that
the university has not felt
it had, I think, sometimes. Also, he seems to me to
be the place that's been able to take a calculated
risk and say, yeah, let's try this. We'll try
cyclotron. And then if it's not what we need, well,
there have been a lot of things that they've shut
down. But it's a place where you can. That's what
research is all about.
I think it's given. the state very recently a
capability and they didn't have to waste energy,
time, and resources going to create something
like this. They can draw upon something they've
been in place for 70 years. I think it will become
more important to the state in the next 20 years.
than
it has in the past. Because if you will look at the
scale, you can almost see an upturn. We have in the
last four years grown at over 25% per year.
Physically? Physically. There is a larger demand
for what we do. And there is going to be a larger need
for what we do. In the future, especially in Texas,
you're going to become a high technologist. There
needs to be a resource for those industries to draw
on for capable answers to questions, working
relationships, and
also a trained talent pool. What is the value of
TEAS to basic science research? versus
technology research. I'm not sure that there is a
difference. I'd be interested in your definition
of what the difference is. I'm not sure there's a
difference either. Dr. Seeley is sure there's a
difference, and he hasn't been able to explain it
to me well enough for me to understand it either.
But to the extent that... Basic science is the
theory upon which you build the reality of
technology. Sure, but you've got to start it with a
problem. Right. Okay, and to me that's it. You have
a problem, then you're working on something
that's applied before you even get into the
basics. I think there's research and there's
development. Okay. And I think that in the body of
research, it's very hard to tell what's basic and
applied. or generic, because you may be working on
a particular application and discover something
that's very generic in its nature that applies to
you. Not intentionally, but you can prevent that
from happening. Also, you can be working on
something very basic, but the purpose of basic
research is to discover things that are of
benefit, which means they have application. You
can't structure it where you do one or the other.
What you can say is this is the research part and
this is the development. This is where I take it to
the marketplace. So is TEAS involved in both? TEAS
was not involved in the marketing or the
commercialization as much in the past as it might
be in the future through Invent. Invent is a
vehicle where when you discover something, you
can do that. Or we also are much more sophisticated
in our
trying to be aware of how that will benefit the
researcher and the university in the state. An
example is there's a researcher in food protein
who recently discovered a patentable process for
what it is, but something that .
There is a university system patent office. The
patent was secured. Dan Davis negotiated a
contract licensing agreement with a company from
Japan. And Jim is taking home a minimum of $200,000
a year for the next two years, and probably the
estimates on a max would be $2 million a year. That
same amount of money comes back to the university
system or continues as a system part, since that's
where it gets work. But that's development, and we
help with that. But the research is really
important. I'd be interested in Dr. Seaway's
definition.
Some people have said basic research is what you do
when you don't know what you're doing. Well, the
pure science, I think, versus the engineering, I
think, is the
difference. In that standpoint, I'd be from
Missouri. I'd say, show me what the difference is.
Because I can take him into some laboratories
and... the Zachry building, there are far more
pure science than most of the things you'll find in
the chemistry department. They're physics.
They're solid state electronics, but that's
physics.
And it's back to the interdisciplinary question.
And I don't know that you can pull it apart that
much. It'll be interesting to see.
Is there anything else you'd like to add to this
that you think I should know that I don't know or
that I haven't
asked? You will run across death as you go along.
Thank
you very much.
Sure.